[MRG] update JOSS paper for v4 (#1361)
sourmash-bio/sourmash: paper.md

---

> title: 'sourmash: a tool to quickly search, compare, and analyze genomic and metagenomic data sets'

Reviewer: "genomic and metegenomic" ignores transcriptome/metatranscriptome data, etc. But since we have mostly tested/developed workflows for genomic/metagenomic data, this is probably fine?

Author: yeah, that was basically my thinking here :)

 - name: Camille Scott
   orcid: 0000-0001-8822-8779
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Connor Skennerton
   orcid: 0000-0003-1320-4873
   affiliation: @@@
 - name: Daniel Standage
   orcid: 0000-0003-0342-8531.
   affiliation: @@@
 - name: Joshua Swamidass
   orcid: 0000-0003-2191-0778
   affiliation: @@@
 - name: Connor Tiffany
   orcid: @@@
   affiliation: @@@
 - name: Erik Young
   orcid: @@@
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: C. Titus Brown
   orcid: 0000-0001-6001-2677
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
date: 3 Mar 2021
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Summary

sourmash is a command line tool and Python library for sketching
collections of DNA, RNA, and amino acid k-mers for biological sequence
search, comparison, and analysis [@Pierce:2019]. The most recent
release, sourmash v4, is built on top of Rust and provides an
experimental Rust interface.

MinHash sketches provide a lightweight way to store "signatures" of
large DNA or RNA sequence collections, and then compare or search them
using a Jaccard index [@Ondov:2015].  MinHash sketches can be used
to identify samples, find similar samples, identify data sets with

> shared sequences, and build phylogenetic trees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shared sequences, and build phylogenetic trees.
```

Since sourmash v1 was released in 2016 [@Brown:2016], sourmash has expanded
to support new database types and many more command line functions.

> In particular, sourmash now has robust support for both Jaccard similarity
> and containment calculations, which supports robust analysis and comparison
> of large metagenomic samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, sourmash now has robust support for both Jaccard similarity
and containment calculations, which enables analysis and comparison of data sets
of different sizes, including large metagenomic samples.
```

one option for avoiding `robust` and `support` twice in same sentence :)

# Statement of Need

Large collections of genomes, transcriptomes, and raw sequencing data
sets are readily available in biology, and the field needs lightweight
computational methods for searching and summarizing the content of
both public and private collections. sourmash provides a flexible set
of programmatic functionality for this purpose, together with a robust
and well-tested command-line interface. It has been used in over 70
publications (based on citations of @Brown:2016) and it continues

> to expand in functionality.

Reviewer: beautiful.

---
title: 'sourmash: a tool to quickly search, compare, and analyze genomic and metagenomic data sets'
tags:
  - FracMinHash
  - MinHash
  - k-mers
  - Python
  - Rust
authors:
 - name: Luiz Irber
   orcid: 0000-0003-4371-9659
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: N. Tessa Pierce-Ward
   orcid: 0000-0002-2942-5331
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Mohamed Abuelanin
   orcid: 0000-0002-3419-4785
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Harriet Alexander
   orcid: 0000-0003-1308-8008
   affiliation: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute
 - name: Abhishek Anant
   orcid:  0000-0002-5751-2010

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @itsabhianant, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

 - name: Keya Barve
   orcid: 0000-0003-3241-2117
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Colton Baumler
   orcid: 0000-0002-5926-7792
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Olga Botvinnik
   orcid: 0000-0003-4412-7970
   affiliation: Bridge Bio
 - name: Phillip Brooks
   orcid: 0000-0003-3987-244X
   affiliation: Ancestry
 - name: Peter Cock
   orcid: 0000-0001-9513-9993

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: Hi @peterjc, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 2: Looking back my only contribution to date was a tiny cosmetic documentation fix, so I'll decline - but thank you for asking.

Reviewer: got it. Thank you for the response and the contribution!

 - name: Daniel Dsouza
   orcid: 0000-0001-7843-8596

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @dsouzadaniel, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

 - name: Laurent Gautier
   orcid: 0000-0003-0638-3391

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @lgautier, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 3: I believe that this is the orcid you are looking for: 0000-0002-5670-4512.

Reviewer: got it, thanks!

 - name: Nick H
   orcid: 0000-0002-1685-302X

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @NapsterInBlue, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 4: Echoing what others have wrote-- sincerely appreciate the offer, but I don't feel like I've contributed remotely enough for attribution.

In any case, I hope the new year's treating everyone well!

Reviewer: got it - thanks for your contribution!

 - name: Tim Head
   orcid: 0000-0003-0931-3698

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @betatim, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 5: I now work for Nvidia.

However, I've not contributed to sourmash in a long time. I think this means my "retirement benefits" have been used up and I'm not an author anymore :)

 - name: Mahmudur Rahman Hera
   orcid: 0000-0002-5992-9012
   affiliation: Pennsylvania State University
 - name: Hannah Eve Houts
   orcid: 0000-0002-7954-4793
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Lisa K. Johnson
   orcid: 0000-0002-3600-7218
   affiliation: 10x Genomics
 - name: Fabian Klötzl
   orcid: 0000-0002-6930-0592

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: Hi @kloetzl, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 6: Hi, my affiliation would be `MPI for Evolutionary Biology`. Thanks for including me.

 - name: David Koslicki
   orcid: 0000-0002-0640-954X
   affiliation: Pennsylvania State University
 - name: Katrin Leinweber
   orcid: 0000-0001-5135-5758

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @katrinleinweber, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 7: Thanks for the ping, @bluegenes! Not including me seems better: https://github.com/sourmash-bio/sourmash/pull/2473

I'm glad that I could help with a small thing and wish you all the best 👋

 - name: Marisa Lim
   orcid: 0000-0003-2097-8818
   affiliation: 10x Genomics
 - name: Ricky Lim
   orcid: 0000-0003-1313-7076

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @ricky-lim, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

 - name: Ivan Ogasawara
   orcid: 0000-0001-5049-4289

>   #  affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @xmnlab, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 8: It would be an honor to be listed there :)
I am very bad with this thing of affiliation, never know what to use :S if it could be something like community, maybe Open Science Labs and ArxLang, otherwise if it could be a scientific project, maybe EpiGraphHub and Mosqlimate. Let me know if you have any thoughts about that or any recommendation

Reviewer: I realized we don't need to list an affiliation for JOSS, so perhaps I'll leave it blank and just link your ORCID? Let me know if you have a preference, thanks!

 - name: Taylor Reiter
   orcid: 0000-0002-7388-421X
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Camille Scott
   orcid: 0000-0001-8822-8779
   affiliation: University of California, Davis
 - name: Andreas Sjödin
   orcid: 0000-0001-5350-4219

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @druvus, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 9: My affiliation is Swedish Defence Research Agency (FOI), Umeå, Sweden

Reviewer: got it, thanks!

 - name: Connor Skennerton
   orcid: 0000-0003-1320-4873

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @ctSkennerton, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

 - name: Jason Stajich
   orcid: 0000-0002-7591-0020

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @hyphaltip, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

(Of course, also please let me know if you'd prefer not to be included as an author.)

Reviewer 10: I'd have loved to contribute but my only code updates are around a PMID fix... so I don't think that rises to authorship here. thanks for being inclusive.

Reviewer 10: I'd have loved to contribute but my only code updates are around a PMID fix... so I don't think that rises to authorship here. thanks for being inclusive but I don't need to be listed as an author.

Reviewer: got it, thanks for your contribution!

 - name: Daniel Standage
   orcid: 0000-0003-0342-8531.

>    #affiliation: @@@

Reviewer: hi @standage, I am updating the list of sourmash authors to release a JOSS paper for version 4.x. Can you please reply with your desired affiliation? Thanks!

Reviewer 11: My current affiliation is the National Bioforensic Analysis Center, Frederick MD. Thanks.

Reviewer: added, thanks!

   affiliation: 1
 - name: Lisa K. Johnson
   orcid: 0000-0002-3600-7218
   affiliation: 1
 - name: Fabian Klötzl
   orcid: 0000-0002-6930-0592
   affiliation: 5
 - name: David Koslicki
   orcid: 0000-0002-0640-954X
   affiliation: 4
 - name: Marisa Lim
   orcid: 0000-0003-2097-8818
   affiliation: 1
 - name: Ricky Lim
   orcid: 0000-0003-1313-7076
   affiliation: 9
 - name: Ivan Ogasawara
   orcid: 0000-0001-5049-4289
   affiliation: 9
 - name: Taylor Reiter
   orcid: 0000-0002-7388-421X
   affiliation: 1
 - name: Camille Scott
   orcid: 0000-0001-8822-8779
   affiliation: 1
 - name: Andreas Sjödin
   orcid: 0000-0001-5350-4219
   affiliation: 6
 - name: Daniel Standage
   orcid: 0000-0003-0342-8531
   affiliation: 7
 - name: S. Joshua Swamidass
   orcid: 0000-0003-2191-0778
   affiliation: 8
 - name: Connor Tiffany
   orcid: 0000-0001-8188-7720
   affiliation: 9
 - name: Pranathi Vemuri
   orcid: 0000-0002-5748-9594
   affiliation: 3
 - name: Erik Young
   orcid: 0000-0002-9195-9801
   affiliation: 1
 - name: C. Titus Brown
   orcid: 0000-0001-6001-2677
   corresponding: true
   affiliation: 1
affiliations:
 - name: University of California, Davis
   index: 1

>  - name: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute

Reviewer 12: Lokos good-- but should be Institution

Reviewer: 😂 I should have caught this - happens with Scripps all the time. Will fix!
